lolMiner-mnx 0.34
 User Documentation
General usage notes
lolMiner-mnx is a software for stratum pool mining with the Equihash 96/5 algorithm (MARS). The software
is provided as it is without any warranty. The usage of the software is free without any charge. This said it
will mine 1.5% for the developer in the background. The displayed sol/s are net solutions, so what the user
gets.
 lolMiner-mnx can be used in two ways: from command line or by using a configuration file. To use such a
file one has to run
lolMiner-mnx.exe --use-config <filename> (Windows) or
lolMiner-mnx --use-config <filename> (Linux).
The configuration files are plain text files that contain the ordinary command line parameters of lolMinermnx
as rows, one parameter including the double minus signs per line. The parameters have to be in first
place of the line to be detected. If an additional value is passed to the parameter, e.g. a number, then it has to
be separated from the parameter itself by exactly one blank. An example file is shipped in the file
example_config.cfg.
A mixed mode of command line parameters and a configuration file is possible. Each parameter passed to the
command line will override the values passed by the configuration file. This allows testing parameters before
they are written to a configuration file.
In the following we will describe the parameters that lolMiner-mnx can handle.
User and Server Settings & Fail-over Support
--server <pool addresses>, --port <pool ports>
This sets the address and port of the mining pool to connect to. From lolMiner-mnx 0.3 comma separated
lists are accepted that have to be of the same length. When lolMiner-mnx failed too often on the same
connection it will try to connect to the next pool in list as fail-over support. When at the end of the list the
pool in the beginning will be tried next. This feature may help preventing income losses due to offline
mining pools.
--user <usernames.workernames>, --pass <user passwords>
These parameters set the user name and the password for the pool to connect to. If the password parameter is
not used, “x” will be used as password for all usernames. If multiple servers are given one has to give the
same number of user names, also as a comma separated value. When connecting to the mining pool the pool
will be asked to authorize the worker. If the authorization message is returning an error the miner will close.
--max-connection-attempts <number>
This parameter defines the maximal number of connection attempts before the miner tries to connect to the
next pool. The minimum is 1, the default value is 5. 
--set-reconnection-timer <number>
If this parameter is set and the miner is connected to a fail-over pool, it will do a retry to connect to the
primary pool after <number> minutes. The minimum possible is 5 minutes, the default is 30 minutes. If
<number> is set to 0 the reconnection feature will be disabled and the miner will continue to mine of the failover
pool.
--disable-suprnova-for-fee
This parameter will remove the suprnova pool from the list of pools that will be used by dev fee connector.
The parameter can be used in countries blocking where the suprnova pool is blocked by the internet service
provider to avoid the miner hangs when connecting. If you do not have the problems please not use this
switch because more pools in the list help maintaining the stability of the miner.
Benchmark Mode
When no pool or user settings are passed to the miner it will run without connection for one minute and
display the speed of the devices. All other parameters apply as expected.
Device and Performance Settings
--platform <number>, --device <device numbers>, --list-devices
OpenCL is organized in platforms, that correspond to the driver to be used for the Miner. On many system –
in particular when the CPU features an integrated graphic card – there is more then one platform on the
system available.
The parameter platform can be used to select the right platform. lolMiner offers the option --list-devices.
When lolMiner is started with this parameter it will print out a list with all platforms that were found on the
system. Additionally for every platform all devices are printed that are found within a platform.
After printing out the miner will close directly. To see the output in Windows you must run cmd (the
Windows command line), navigate to the directory where lolMiner-mnx.exe is in and then run lolMinermnx.exe
--list-devices directly from the command line. Writing the --list-devices to the configuration file is
not supported and running in the batch will end up in the miner closing instantaneously and you do not see a
print out.
From lolMiner-mnx 0.3 there is one special value AUTO that can be passed to the miner and also is the
default. This one will select the platform with the most graphic cards automatically. If there are two with the
same number, e.g. and Intel integrated GPU and one AMD / Nvidia graphic card it will prefer the non-Intel
platform.
Within the platform also the devices to be used must be selected. As for other parameters you can use a
comma separated list to mine on multiple GPUs. Note that the first device is numbered by the number 0.
From lolMiner-mnx 0.3 there are two special values ALL and ALLGPU (default), that will select all devices
or all graphic cards in the selected platform. Note then when using --device ALL on a processor with
integrated graphics the miner will mine as well on the integrated graphics and on the CPU part. For most
configurations this is not recommended. 
--set-work-batch <number or special value>
This parameter controls the amount of work that is send to the graphic card at the same time and how many
results are unloaded from the GPU in one batch. Using a higher number will cause more GPU memory to be
used. On the other hand a high number also reduces the overhead from the OpenCL api. The parameter
accepts a single integer number from 1 to 24 included.
From lolMiner-mnx 0.3 there are three special values 2G, AUTO and HIGH. When the work batch is set to
2G the miner is allowed to use 2 gigabytes of graphic memory at most. At level AUTO it will use at most
60% of the graphic cards memory and at level HIGH 90%. Note that AUTO and HIGH operate on per-GPU
level, so mixing graphic cards with different memory sizes is no problem.
For Windows and AMD graphic cards there currently is a problem with lolMiner-mnx and the driver
preventing that the miner works with more then 2 gigabytes of memory. Therefore the default for the
Windows version is 2G, while the default for the Linux version is AUTO. This causes lolMiner-mnx 0.3 to
be slightly faster on Linux compared to Windows when using AMD graphic cards. The restriction does not
apply for Nvidia graphic cards. For this GPU it should be save to use AUTO on any operation system.
--optim <special value>
This parameter controles the level of optimization of the miner. For most graphic cards the default value
STD is the fastest. On some Nvidia graphic cards, e.g. GT 1030, GTX 1050 (Ti) and older cards
( 8X00M, GTX 750 Ti and lower) we observed that the second opportunity OFF is faster.
--use-alt-mine-thread
This is a parameter for compatiplity reasons that will use the old style of lolMiner-mnx 0.13 to schedule
work on the graphic cards. Use this only when necessary. e.g. on Intel graphic cards. This will deactivate the
multiple GPU feature, so only one graphic card can be used in one lolMiner-mnx instance.
--disable-double-buffer
This parameter disables the asynchronous data transfer from the GPU to the miner that was introduced in
0.34. Disabling may improve compatibility and is currently recommended for the open source “Clover
OpenCL” drivers on Linux.
Display Settings
--set-short-stats-interval <number>
Set the interval length between the short time statistics output to <number> seconds. Default is 5. Choosing
0 will deactivate the output.
--set-long-stats-interval <number>
Same as for short interval. The default is 60. Choosing 0 will deactivate the output. The interval will also set
the duration of the benchmark mode.
--use-compact-short-stat
This parameter will make lolMiner-mnx to print the short statistics in a similar style as the long statistics but
without the surrounding dashed lines. Therefore one single line will be used for all devices instead of one
line per device.
--use-compact-accept-msg
This parameter will replace the standard “Submitting share / Share accepted” messages by *-symbols behind
the short stats messages. Using this switch will automatically also activate –use-compact-short-stat.
--enable-time-print
This parameter will make lolMiner-mnx to print the current system time in format HH:MM:SS before each
statistics line. This applies as well to the long as to the short statistics.
--stats-digits <number>
This parameter adjusts the number of decimal digits that are printed in the statistics output. The minimum is
0, which corresponds to no digits beyond decimal delimiter printed. The default is one.
Misc Settings
--continue-on-error
By default the miner closes when no share was tested to be below target for a full minute or no share was
submitted for 10 minutes or when one GPU did not return from its task in a proper state. The latter include
cases where the GPU does 0 sol/s for too long time. Closing the miner can be disabled by this parameter.
--set-sleep-duration <number>
This will set the sleep time between the attempts of the miner software polling the GPU if it has its work
done. The number is treated as microseconds. The default is 1000 microseconds, equals one millisecond.
Setting the value to 0 will deactivate any sleeping. This may help to reduce problems when the CPU load on
the overall system is high, but it will make the miner to use one full CPU core for polling the GPU as fast as
it can. Use with care.